# CTA-Q&A-Chatbot
Developed a chatbot designed for question and answering about the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) system. While the CTA currently has a chatbot on its website, it mainly used for incident reporting rather than question and answering. The CTA website is quite expansive with many different pages and sublinks and it can be found to be difficult for users to find the information that they need. Hence the reason of the development of the chatbot. First, I scrapped the CTA website for text and developed a RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) pipeline to create a chatbot that can answer a user's inquiry about the CTA. The chatbot can answer questions related to fare info, policies, station information and other related topics about the CTA. 

All the code used to develop the chatbot is available in this repository. There are two parts, a web scrapping notebook and a RAG pipeline notebook. Due to the encryption and secruity on the CTA's website, I had to employ ScraperAPI to get around the security in order to successfully be able to web scrape the CTA website. The CTA has two types of pages, static and dynamic. Static pages are like your typical webpages where the information of the webpages don't change hence there are static pages. Dyanmic pages are webpages that provide live updates or can help provide navigation, pages that can change each time you click on them. The CTA nicely allows users to download GTFS data which contains most of the information found on those dyanimc webpages. For the static pages, I employed sentence based chunking since text on those pages were in the form of natural language. GTFS data I employed a 512 character chunking since the format of the data was more of a chart then naturally flowing sentences. 

The RAG pipeline notebook is where the chatbot was developed. RAG which stands for Retrieval Augmented Generation is an AI method that helps reduce LLM hallucinations. Hallucinations are a well documented issue with LLMs and fine-tuning them or even re-training them is very expensive from a compute cost persepctive. RAG is the solution to both problems as it serves as a low compute cost solution that makes the LLM base its answer on verified and factual information before generating a response. 
For the RAG pipeline I utilized Mistral 7B Instruct which is free open source LLM that is available via HuggingFace. Mistral 7B Instruct was selected due to its ability to work well on local machines (due to low compute restraints). Mistral was employed for response generation. For the embedding model I used All-MiniLM-L6-v2 which is a distilled sentence BERT model/transformer architecture. This model was key in converting the raw text data into numerical representation that the RAG pipeline can utilize. These embeddings were stored in a ChromaDB for retrieval. For retrieving the correct embeddings/information to answer user queries, a hybrid search method was used. I used a mixture of keyword and semantic search which allowed the retrieval method to be able to accurately retrieve relevant embeddings/info chunks to a user's query. Semantic search is good because it allows the retrieval method to still find relevant information despite the wording not matching a 100% but keyword search is good in cases where small but crucial details matter. For example, there are varying fare amounts depending on the route you are traveling on the CTA. A trip from O'Hare (ORD) airport costs $5 whereas any other trip on the CTA costs $2.50. Semantic search could potentially confuse between these two prices and therefore output an incorrect response whereas keyword search is able to efffectively differentiate the two and make the proper decision. So combining keyword and semantic search methods allowed for a higher retrieval accuracy rate rather than using either keyword alone or semantic alone.

RAGAS Results:
Ran a series of benchmarking questions and used RAGAS to evaluate the results. RAGAS employs an LLM to evaluate an AI pipeline. These metrics values range from 0 to 1 with 1 being the highest score and 0 being the lowest. I used the following four metrics to evaluate the pipeline: faithfulness (how accurate is the answer), context relevance (does the response answer the query), context precision (did we find the best availabe chunks for job), and context recall (did it fetch all the necessary info needed to answer the query). These were the following score of the RAG pipeline:

- Faithfulness: 0.942
- Context Relevance: 0.854
- Context Precision: 0.931
- Context Recall: 0.867

 Notes:
 All pretrained models and methods were left as is. This was to prevent downstream knwoledge contamination or fine tuning degradation. Also fine-tuning the selected models and methods would've been too costly from a compute persepective. Also fine-tuning the models and methods would've defeated the point of developing a RAG pipeline in the first place. By fine-tuning the methods, the models/methods would've relied solely on its own knowledge rather than relying on the text data scrapped from the CTA website. To ensure that the chatbot didn't spew any inappropriate responses, a prompt was provided to the LLM to have some guidelines for how the LLM should generate a response. I also used 4-bitg NormalFloat (nf4) quantization via BitsandBytes to allow Mistral 7B instruct to be used on a Google colab notebook/interface. 
 All code can be ran successfully on Google colab. I recommend using at least a T4 GPU. 

Limitations:
- This chatbot is not multilingual. The current CTA chatbot has mutlilingual capabilities with language support in English, Spanish, Chinese, Polish, and Filipino. If this chatbot were to be deployed on the real CTA website, having this capability would be essential to help serve non-English speaking customers. 
- All of the data used in the dataset is static. So any question involving live time alerts like train arrivals or delays can't be answered by the chatbot.
- There is no conversational memory for multi-turn follow ups. Every question/query is treated independentely so the chatbot doesn't remember details previously mentioned in the conversation.
- If we wanted to update/refresh the data the chatbot is based on, we would need to utilize paid ScraperAPI services.

Next steps:
- Development of a user interface. You can directly interact with the pipeline in the RAG pipeline notebook but development of a user interface would make utilizing the chatbot easier.
- API integration, connect CTA tracker APIs for real-time routing and live alerts.
- Implement LangChain conversation memory for contextual multi-turn chat.
- Potential swap to a more powerful LLM for response generation to help faciliate upgrades like multi-turn chat/chat memroy capabilities or even multilingual function. 
 
